updated JupyterLab documentation (#255)
eu-cdse/documentation: Applications/JupyterHub.qmd

---
title: "JupyterLab"
---

> JupyterLab is an advanced interactive development environment (IDE) that offers a flexible and feature-rich interface for working with notebooks, code, and data. It surpasses the Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface, providing a modern and comprehensive user experience. JupyterLab allows users to organize their workspaces using a flexible layout system with panels, views, and tabs for various activities. It supports various document formats, including notebooks, text files, code files, and markdown files. With its modular and extensible architecture, JupyterLab enables customization through extensions, additional functionalities, and integration with external tools. It enhances the user experience with features like a file browser, command palette, debugger, and console, making it a versatile tool for interactive data exploration, analysis, and scientific computing.

Reviewer: Side-note: consider using an authoring style where you start each sentence on a new line. This will still be rendered as a single paragraph, as markdown requires at least 2 newlines to separate paragraphs.

Having your text chunked over multiple lines makes it a lot easier to do (github based) review and do long term maintenance.

e.g. also see https://sembr.org/

Reviewer: > It surpasses the Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface, providing a modern and comprehensive user experience.

 I would not mention the classic webapp

Author: noted

When you click the "SIGN IN WITH KEYCLOAK" button, you will be directed to the Copernicus Dataspace login window. Here you can use your Copernicus Dataspace Ecosystem Credentials.

> ## Jupyter Notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Notebooks
```

Author: updated

> Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface serve as an accessible entry point for both non-programmers and developers who want to quickly prototype their EO data processing. They provide a user-friendly interface, integrating well with Python SDK services like Sentinel Hub and OpenEO. Each Notebook has direct access to the EO Data repository, and example notebooks are available to facilitate data interaction. To handle tool dependencies and library versions, multiple notebook kernels are provided and regularly updated with the provided samples. This eliminates the need for users to handle dependency installations, enabling immediate prototyping without technical obstacles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notebooks in JupyterLab are an interactive Python programming environment for both non-programmers and developers who want to quickly prototype their EO data processing. They provide a user-friendly interface, integrating well with services like Sentinel Hub and openEO. Each notebook has direct access to the EO Data repository, and example notebooks are available to facilitate data interaction. To handle tool dependencies and library versions, multiple notebook kernels are provided and regularly updated with the provided samples. This eliminates the need for users to handle dependency installations, enabling immediate prototyping without technical obstacles.
```

Author: updated

## Markdown and Rich Text

If you prefer to work with a separate file, you can create a new Markdown (.md) or text (.txt) from the launcher or right click on the side bar and New file. Open the file and start writing your Markdown content using the Markdown syntax. Once you've written your content, you can save the file and preview it by double-clicking on it in the file browser, which will open a preview pane showing the rendered Markdown.

> Alternatively, you can include Markdown and rich text directly within Notebooks. In a notebook, you can create a new cell and change its type to "Markdown" using the cell type dropdown in the toolbar or by pressing  `M`. Then, you can write your Markdown content in the cell using the Markdown syntax. To preview the rendered Markdown, you can either run the cell by pressing `Shift` + `Enter`, or use the "Preview" option from the cell's context menu to see the rendered content without executing the cell's code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can include rich text in Markdown format directly within notebooks: create a new cell and change its type to "Markdown" using the cell type dropdown in the toolbar or by pressing `M`. Then, you can write your Markdown content in the cell using the Markdown syntax. To preview the rendered Markdown, you can either run the cell by pressing `Shift` + `Enter`, or use the "Preview" option from the cell's context menu to see the rendered content without executing the cell's code.
```

What is this "Preview" option? As far as I know you can just "execute" a markdown cell (shift+enter).  So the `rendered content without executing the cell's code.` also make no sense to me

Author: Ah, this was my mistake, It seems like I added it for the markdown document too which is possible in Jupyterlab. I removed the sentence in this context

Author: updated

Reviewer: did you already push the commit to change the markdown "preview" stuff?

Author: yes, updated as mentioned in the comment below :)

If you prefer to work with a separate file, you can create a new Markdown (.md) or text (.txt) from the launcher or right click on the side bar and New file. Open the file and start writing your Markdown content using the Markdown syntax. Once you've written your content, you can save the file and preview it by double-clicking on it in the file browser, which will open a preview pane showing the rendered Markdown.

Alternatively, you can include Markdown and rich text directly within Notebooks. 
In a notebook, you can create a new cell and change its type to "Markdown" using the cell type dropdown in the toolbar or by pressing  `M`. 

> Here, you can write your Markdown content in the cell using the Markdown syntax. Then execute the cell by pressing `Shift` + `Enter` .

Author: @soxofaan Yes, I did update the sentence as shown below, which is reflected in made changes but not sure why it is not showing in the document. I will redo it.

 Alternatively, you can include Markdown and rich text directly within Notebooks. 
In a notebook, you can create a new cell and change its type to "Markdown" using the cell type dropdown in the toolbar or by pressing  `M`. 
Here, you can write your Markdown content in the cell using the Markdown syntax. Then execute the cell by pressing `Shift` + `Enter` .

Author: I updated the sentence as you suggested. 😅

## Tips and tricks

### Switching from Jupyter Lab to Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface

> If you would like to switch to the  Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface, you can modify the URL in your home directory. Simply change the last part of the URL address from "lab" to "tree".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to switch to the  Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface, you can modify the URL of the web application. Simply change the last part of the URL address from "lab" to "tree".
```

Author: updated

> For example, you can change `https://jupyterhub.dataspace.copernicus.eu/user/username/lab/` to `https://jupyterhub.dataspace.copernicus.eu/user/username/tree/`. This way, you can easily access the notebook interface if desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can change `https://jupyterhub.dataspace.copernicus.eu/user/username/lab/` to `https://jupyterhub.dataspace.copernicus.eu/user/username/tree/`. This way, you can easily access the Classic Jupyter Notebook Interface if desired.
```

Author: updated
